Hello and welcome.
This game I have got some state I killed this guard I go and have a look at my player and have a look
at his health you can see that his help points are down one hundred and seventy now if I go over into
the other world in my sandbox too it's gonna go and load up the sandbox too obviously and if I locate
my player again you will see that his health is still hundred and seventy so it's remembered the health
of my player between the two scenes a little bit of state being transferred between scenes but also
if I go back to sandbox one you can see that the guard there is still dead.
So we're creating this illusion of having a persistent world even though we've got multiple scenes and
objects being created and destroyed as we go between scenes.
Let's dive in and see how to achieve it.
So we've got a particular state of the environment.
This guy is dead My health is decreased.
And what we'd like to happen is that if I go through the portal in two seemed to then go back to scene
one what I would expect to see is that that dead guy is still dead and my health is still down now as
it happens.
That is not what is currently happening.
And the reason for that is that we have not told that to be what is happening of course I can go and
reload using the elk but that's not how we wanted to behave we want this behavior to be automatic.
Essentially we want our portals sort of to act like checkpoints.
So let's have a look at our portal transition code.
What is it doing.
First of all it is setting this game object to don't destroy on load so that we don't get rid of the
portal until the new world has loaded up.
Then we are finding our theta and we are fading out gradually over time once we have finished fading
out and this is hence the yield return.
We are loading the next scene and once that scene loading has finished we are finding a corresponding
portal updating our player to that new portal location that's going on down here on line 45 then we're
waiting for a certain amount of time just for the probably for the camera to stabilize and then we are
fading back in.
Finally we destroy this portal.
Now in this process we want to do two things.
First of all we wanted to save the state of the world.
We just came from so that when we go back there it will all be as it was before.
Second thing we want to do is load the state of the world.
We are going in to now with these two things this would allow us to go back and forth between the worlds
without losing any of the state.
So where should this be where should we were doing the loading where it should be doing the saving.
Have a little think.
Where would you be putting the two now for the loading.
I am going to do for the saving rather I'm going to do it just before we transition away from the scene
so just after we've done a fade out.
This is where we want to save current level now.
Afterwards we wants to be reloading our level.
Where do we think that should be.
Well that should be just after we finished loading the new level.
But before we have started updating the players position to the other portal that should happen regardless.
So we can have a load.
Current level in here.
Now these two functions already exist on our saving wrapper and that's what we should use not go straight
to the saving system because we go through the saving wrapper.
It's going to use the correct default save file.
OK so little mini challenge for you.
See if you can call to the saving wrapper and call save and call load from those two locations that
I've commented in Portal OK so the first thing we have to do is set save and load to be public so that
we can call them from outside.
The next thing say saving wrapper and closed by accident.
That was just me flubbing the keys.
Anyway we don't need it.
So it's fine.
I'm going to do here is get hold of the saving wrap and I'll go and do it the same way as we did with
the fighter.
I'm going to do it by doing a find object of type.
So it's gonna be the saving wrapper and just call it the wrapper for short hair because it's should
be quite clear in the context.
Now we're going to do a find object of type.
Call it the saving wrapper get get the type of saving wrapper and that should have us the wrapper.
Next up we want to do a wrapper dot safe.
Very very straightforward.
And then down here we still got the reference remember saving wrapper doesn't go anywhere it's a persistent
object so our reference is still valid after we've loaded the new scene.
So what we want to do is do a wrapper dot load it should be as simple as that.
We should have saving and loading happening between scenes.
So let's give it a shot.
I'm gonna go and hit play.
I'm going to load the state where the enemy is dead you could go ahead and create some state for yourself
and then we're going to leave the world which should trigger save it seems to have done in the concert
it so trigger to save.
Let's see.
I'll go back into that world and what I'd expect to see is that the enemy is still dead.
Indeed he seems to be.
So now I'm going to do one more test.
I'm going to add some state that wasn't in that original save and check that the saving is working correctly
I'm going to kill this dude and go back into scene 2 and then back into scene 1 and let's see if God
number 2 is still dead.
Yes he is.
So saving and loading is now working between scenes here's one slight spanner to add into the mix though
by go ahead and find my player and the Inspector.
Have a look at his health so at the moment he's got one hundred and thirty health points I would expect
that if I go through.
Interesting too.
And go and find my player in the inspectors a core player.
Find his health here.
Oh no.
He has 200 health points so something's clearly going wrong here.
He's not getting the same health points.
Why could that be now the reason for this is that the saver Bill entity has a different unique identifier
in each of the scenes and that's normal that's what should happen because you don't want to be accidentally
sharing state between scenes.
But sometimes you want to do that deliberately.
In this case what we need to do is actually go and change the unique identifier on the prefab that we
want to be shared between scenes you might want to do this with the player you might want to do this
with other potential characters.
To be honest the play is about the only thing I can imagine doing it on at the moment but you might
want to do it with other things.
Who knows.
Depends on how your game works.
So we're gonna go to the play a prefab go to the unique identifier I'm just going to call it player.
It could be anything you like as long as it's going to be consistent between scenes which because you're
setting in the prefab it will be.
Now one thing we have to do though is go back to both of our scenes which we currently have updated
with unique identifiers and we need to just clear out the override that will be in those scenes automatically
generates.
You can see there's a unique identifier here set on the player.
That's not what we want.
If we right click on the unique identifier and just do a revert then it's going to go back to the unique
identifier player and it won't try to overwrite that with any sort of unique identifier.
If there was one set already in a prefab it won't create a unique identifier.
If you leave it empty the unique identifier will be created automatically for you.
That's just a nice thing that the system does.
Now if we go and find ourselves and another scene the sandbox too we need to do the same thing in there.
Going up in a core the player and just reset again its unique identifier and reset that player make
sure we save both scenes and then we go into sandbox one hit play and go ahead and hit loads so all
of them die.
Let's just go and check our health has been set so our health points are actually at 200.
The reason for that is we gave it a new unique identifier.
That means it couldn't relate.
The old salable entity with the new save the land stickers saying the old so bluntly had a different
unique identifier.
This one has the unique identifier player.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm just gonna manually set our health points to 100 and these should get saved
when we go between scenes.
So I'm gonna leave this scene.
It's gonna save the hundred health and it's updated my location in a very funny way and we'll fix that
in just a sec but if I go and have a look at my player and have a look at the health points you can
see that it has remembered that the health points were 100 in the last scene so it's got that continuity
of state between the player and that's actually why our position is very funny as well because our position
is based upon the last position that we were in when we left the world.
In fact it's a combination of that with the bug I was telling you about with the NAF mesh agent so the
way to fix this is actually to do the same thing as we did with the left mesh agent here where we're
doing update player because what's going on is that we are loading the state and then we are updates.
So we're updating the players location here and loading the state and then when we update a player with
the portals location we aren't or we're not remembering to update the nav mesh agent so then have mesh
agents getting confused again.
So what we need to do here is do in our update plan we're going to do first of all disabling the damage
agent so we need to get the nav mesh agent it's going to be player dot get component nav mesh agent.
Now you'd have to make sure you include the unity engine I namespace then we can just do enable false
like so and then we're gonna do the same thing on the other side just re enabling the nav mesh agent
and let's see now whether this is going to work correctly when we go between scenes and is not going
to randomly shoot is off to a different location.
So I'm just gonna update my health again.
So let's go and find our health.
Here we go.
So that's a 100 I'll go through into the next world and it updates my location correctly.
So what's going on is that it's reloading the players state it's even reloading that location but subsequently
we are then overwriting the location with the player portals location so that the location information
doesn't actually matter it's saying hey we don't care about that location we're just gonna have a writer
in the case of the player that's coming through a portal but everything else about that player we will
remember as we will see if we open up core player go to the player in the inspector you can see the
health points have been remembered and if there was other stuff like inventory and experience points
all of that is going to be recalled and brought back in scene 2.
And if we just go back into scene one we'll just just to keep this in mind we do in fact if I go to
the player again have the health and scene one as well so that's now gone into the save file under the
player and it doesn't matter which scene the player comes into he is going to have the same number of
health points.
Cool stuff.
So in the next lecture we are going to be looking at how we can get the last scene we were in to load
when we start again because at the moment if I went off in two scene two and I hit save and I leave
the game and come back then you're going to notice that it loads me scene one as it always has done
but what we really want to happen in a production game is that the last scene you are in is the one
that loads we're gonna figure out how to do that in the next lecture.
See that.